PEP 786: Precision and Modulo-Precision Flag format specifiers for integer fields (#4416)
python/peps: peps/pep-0786.rst

PEP: 786
Title: Precision and modulo-precision flag format specifiers for integer fields
Author: Jay Berry <email@jb2170.com>
Sponsor: Alyssa Coghlan <ncoghlan@gmail.com>
Status: Draft
Type: Standards Track
Created: 04-Apr-2025
Python-Version: 3.15
Post-History: `14-Feb-2025 <https://discuss.python.org/t/80760>`__,

Abstract
========

> This PEP proposes implementing the standard format specifier ``.`` of :pep:`3101` as "precision" for integers formatted with the binary, octal, decimal, and hexadecimal presentation types, and implementing the standard format specifier ``z`` as a "modulo" flag for integers formatted with precision and the binary, octal, and hexadecimal presentation types, which first reduces the integer into ``range(base ** precision)``, resulting in a predictable two's complement style formatting.

Reviewer: Can this *very* long sentence be split into more manageable chunks?

> Both "precision" (``.``), and the "modulo-precision" flag (``z``) are presented in this PEP, as the alternative rejected implementations entail combinations of both.

Reviewer: This was just explained in the sentence above?

Author: Addressed by d477f4cea14bac021ba40f0bacc8fbbe505016ba

> This PEP amends the clause of :pep:`3101` which states "[t]he precision is ignored for integer conversions".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This PEP amends the clause of :pep:`3101` which states "[that] precision is ignored for integer conversions".
```
Better IMO

---

```suggestion
This PEP amends the clause of :pep:`3101` which states "the precision is ignored for integer conversions".
```

If we really want to keep the awkward structure, generally style guides don't mind changing capitalization.

Author: Addressed by e49ebdf5194fc90ddf11d380fb777e26d42ae719

    # observe the CR and LF bytes padded to precision 2
    # in this basic HTTP/0.9 request

    >>> def unicode_dump(s: str) -> str:
    ...     return " ".join(f"U+{ord(c):.4X}" for c in s)

    >>> unicode_dump("USA 🦅")
    'U+0055 U+0053 U+0041 U+0020 U+1F985'
    # observe the last character's Unicode codepoint has 5 digits;
    # precision is only the minimum number of digits

Modulo-Precision
----------------

The clear area for encouraging the use of modulo-precision is when dealing with machine-width oriented integers such as those packed and unpacked by :mod:`struct`. We give an example of the consistent predictable two's complement formatting of signed and unsigned integers.

.. code-block:: python

    >>> import struct

    >>> my_struct = b"\xff"
    >>> (t,) = struct.unpack('b', my_struct) # signed char
    >>> print(t, f"{t:#.2x}", f"{t:z#.2x}")
    '-1 -0x01 0xff'
    >>> (t,) = struct.unpack('B', my_struct) # unsigned char
    >>> print(t, f"{t:#.2x}", f"{t:z#.2x}")
    '255 0xff 0xff'

    # observe in both the signed and unsigned unpacking the modulo-precision flag 'z'
    # produces a predictable two's complement formatting

Thanks
======

Thank you to

> * Sergey B Kirpichev, for discussions and implementation code.

Author: Addressed by 2086547af696a30557c38efb3d8bb015a247cb1c

> * Raymond Hettinger, for the initial suggestion of the two's complement behavior.

Reviewer 2: Again, Raymond's initial suggestion was very different from proposed here: when value not fits to the two's complement format - error should be raised.  In fact, it's now in "Rejected Alternatives", if I have read this huge text correctly.

I suggest you to either drop everything, related to specific handling of the `z` flag, or ask @rhettinger if he is ok with proposed here behavior (i.e. `z` will be an alias to ``value % 2**prec`` for ``'b'`` type, no errors or anything else to indicate that value not fits).

Author: I'll leave it in

Reviewer 2: Sorry, it's not just about "thanks".

So far, your new handling of the ``'z'`` flag backed only by Raymond's feature request.  But it's not clear if this issue was solved as author expected.  Meanwhile, I suggest moving proposal for the ``'z'`` flag to the Open Issues section.

Copyright
=========

This document is placed in the public domain or under the
CC0-1.0-Universal license, whichever is more permissive.

TODO AND REMOVE BEFORE MERGE
============================

* Format all lines to ~80 characters. I've left this formatting until we're happy with the contents.
* RFC 2119 Style Specification? After all is said and done here.

> * Give a good example of non-hardware aware use of modular arithmetic formatting, my brain has gone blank...

Reviewer: Why is this pr not a draft? Reviewing is a pain until lines are wrapped, please do so.

Author: Addressed by 565466d836fa7f4efac4a75d6ee4af5ce2935f4f

PEP: 786
Title: Precision and Modulo-Precision Flag format specifiers for integer fields
Author: Jay Berry <email@jb2170.com>
Sponsor: Alyssa Coghlan <ncoghlan@gmail.com>
Status: Draft
Type: Standards Track
Created: 04-Apr-2025
Python-Version: 3.15
Post-History: `14-Feb-2025 <https://discuss.python.org/t/80760>`__,

Abstract
========

This PEP proposes implementing the standard format specifier ``.`` of :pep:`3101` as "precision" for integers formatted with the binary, octal, decimal, and hexadecimal presentation types, and implementing the standard format specifier ``z`` as a "modulo" flag for integers formatted with precision and the binary, octal, and hexadecimal presentation types, which first reduces the integer into ``range(base ** precision)``, resulting in a predictable two's complement style formatting.

Both "precision" (``.``), and the "modulo-precision" flag (``z``) are presented in this PEP, as the alternative rejected implementations entail combinations of both.

This PEP amends the clause of :pep:`3101` which states "[t]he precision is ignored for integer conversions".

Rationale
=========

> When string formatting integers in binary octal and hexadecimal, one often desires the resulting string to contain a guaranteed minimum number of digits. For unsigned integers of known machine-width bounds (eg 8 bit bytes) this often also ends up the exact resulting number of digits. This has previously been implemented in the old-style ``%`` formatting using the ``.`` "precision" format specifier, closely related to that of the C programming language.

Reviewer 3: Avoid Latin abbreviations: https://devguide.python.org/documentation/style-guide/#use-simple-language
```suggestion
When string formatting integers in binary octal and hexadecimal, one often desires the resulting string to contain a guaranteed minimum number of digits. For unsigned integers of known machine-width bounds (for example, 8-bit bytes) this often also ends up the exact resulting number of digits. This has previously been implemented in the old-style ``%`` formatting using the ``.`` "precision" format specifier, closely related to that of the C programming language.
```

.. code-block:: python

    >>> "0x%.2x" % 15
    '0x0f'           # two hex digits, ideal for displaying an unsigned byte
    >>> "0o%.3o" % 18
    '0o022'          # three octal digits, ideal for displaying a umask or file permissions

> When :pep:`3101` new-style formatting was first introduced, used in ``str.format`` and ``f``\ strings, the `format specification <formatspec_>`_ was simple enough that the behavior of "precision" could be trivially emulated with the ``width`` format specifier. Precision therefore was left unimplemented and forbidden for ``int`` fields. However, as time has progressed and new format specifiers have been added, whose interactions with ``width`` noticeably diverge its behavior away from emulating precision, the readmission of precision as its own format specifier, ``.``, is sufficiently warranted.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When :pep:`3101` new-style formatting was first introduced, used in ``str.format`` and f-strings, the `format specification <formatspec_>`_ was simple enough that the behavior of "precision" could be trivially emulated with the ``width`` format specifier. Precision therefore was left unimplemented and forbidden for ``int`` fields. However, as time has progressed and new format specifiers have been added, whose interactions with ``width`` noticeably diverge its behavior away from emulating precision, the readmission of precision as its own format specifier, ``.``, is sufficiently warranted.
```

The ``width`` format specifier guarantees a minimum length of the entire replacement field, not just the number of digits in a formatted integer. For example, the wonderful ``#`` specifier that prepends the prefix of the corresponding presentation type consumes from ``width``:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> x = 12
    >>> f"0x{x:02x}" # manually specifying '0x' prefix
    '0x0c'           # two hex digits :)
    >>> f"{x:#02x}"  # use '#' format specifier to output '0x' automatically
    '0xc'            # only one hex digit :(
    >>> f"{x:#08b}"
    '0b001100'       # we wanted 8 bits, not 6 :(

> One could attempt to argue that since the length of a prefix is known to always be 2, it can be accounted for manually by adding 2 to the desired number of digits. Consider however the following demonstrations of why this is a bad idea:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
One could attempt to argue that since the length of a prefix is known to always be two, it can be accounted for manually by adding two to the desired number of digits. Consider however the following demonstrations of why this is a bad idea:
```

Author: Since this PEP is heavy with arithmetic I'm hesitant to replace numerals (2) with their formal English version (two) for the sake of legibility and flow in the appropriate paragraphs. I'm aware of the convention in English to write numbers 0-9 formally, but this is a technical specification.

Sometimes (like in the line being reviewed here) we also use 'one' as an indefinite pronoun, and so it seems reasonable to keep the numbers in arithmetic contexts separate as numerals. Otherwise 'one' and 'two' being present in this sentence looks misleading.

* By correcting the second example to ``f"{x:#04x}"``, at a glance this looks like it may produce four hex digits, but it only produces two. This is bad for readability. ``4`` is thus too much of a 'magic number', and trying to counter that by being overly explicit with ``f"{x:#0{2+2}x}"`` looks ridiculous.

> * In the future it is possible that a type specifier may be added with a prefix not of length 2, meaning the programmer has to calculate the prefix length, rather than Python's internal string formatting code handling that automatically.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* In the future it is possible that a type specifier may be added with a prefix not of length two, meaning the programmer has to calculate the prefix length, rather than Python's internal string formatting code handling that automatically.
```

Author: Ditto https://github.com/python/peps/pull/4416#discussion_r2092532970

* Things get more complicated when using the ``sign`` format specifier, ``f"{x: #0{1+2+2}x}"`` required to produce ``' 0x0c'``.
* Things get *even more* complicated when introducing a ``grouping_option``, for example formatting an integer into ``k`` 'word' segments joined by ``_``: ``x = 3735928559; k = 2; f"{x: #0{1+2+4*k+(k - 1)}_x}"`` is required to produce ``' 0xdead_beef'``. Surely this would be easier to write with precision as ``f"{x: #_.8x}"``?

It is clear at this point that the reduction of complexity that would be provided by precision's implementation for ``int`` fields would be beneficial to any user. Nor is this proposal a new special-case behavior being demanded exclusively at the behest of ``int`` fields: the precision token ``.`` is already implemented as prescribed in :pep:`3101` for ``str`` data to truncate the field's length, and for ``float`` data to ensure that there are a fixed number of digits after the decimal point, eg ``f"{0.1+0.2: .4f}"`` producing ``' 0.3000'``. Thus no new tokens need adding to the `format specification <formatspec_>`_ because of this proposal, maintaining its modest size.

> For the sake of completion, and lack of any reasonable objection, we propose that precision shall work also in decimal, base 10. Explicitly, the integer presentation types laid out in :pep:`3101` that are permitted to implement precision are ``'b'``, ``'d'``, ``'o'``, ``'x'``, ``'X'``, ``'n'``, and ``'' (None)``. The only presentation type not permitted is ``c`` ('character'), whose purpose is to format an integer to a single Unicode character, or an appropriate replacement for non-printable characters, for which it does not make sense to implement precision. In the event that new integer presentation types are added in the future, such as ``'B'`` and ``'O'`` which mutatis-mutandis could provide the same behavior as ``'X'`` (that is a capitalized prefix and digits), their addition should appropriately consider whether precision should be implemented or not. In the case of ``'B'`` and ``'O'`` as described here it would be correct to implement precision. A ``ValueError`` shall be raised when precision is attempted to be used for invalid integer presentation types.

Reviewer 3: Perhaps?
```suggestion
For the sake of completion, and lack of any reasonable objection, we propose that precision shall work also in decimal, base 10. Explicitly, the integer presentation types laid out in :pep:`3101` that are permitted to implement precision are ``'b'``, ``'d'``, ``'o'``, ``'x'``, ``'X'``, ``'n'``, and ``''`` (``None``). The only presentation type not permitted is ``c`` ('character'), whose purpose is to format an integer to a single Unicode character, or an appropriate replacement for non-printable characters, for which it does not make sense to implement precision. In the event that new integer presentation types are added in the future, such as ``'B'`` and ``'O'`` which mutatis-mutandis could provide the same behavior as ``'X'`` (that is a capitalized prefix and digits), their addition should appropriately consider whether precision should be implemented or not. In the case of ``'B'`` and ``'O'`` as described here it would be correct to implement precision. A ``ValueError`` shall be raised when precision is attempted to be used for invalid integer presentation types.
```

.. code-block:: text

     45 (8 bit)  00101101
     45 (9 bit) 000101101
    -19 (8 bit)  11101101
    -19 (9 bit) 111101101

For non-negative numbers this is obvious. For negative numbers this is because the erstwhile leading column of an ``n`` bit representation goes from having a value of ``-2 ** (n-1)``, to ``+2 ** (n-1)``, with a new ``n+1``\ th column of value ``-2 ** n`` prefixed on, the overall sum unaffected.

This is what C's ``printf`` does, working with powers of two as the numbers of digits:

.. code-block:: C

    printf("%#hhb\n", -19); // 0b11101101
    printf("%#hho\n", -19); // 0355
    printf("%#hhx\n", -19); // 0xed

    printf("%#b\n",   -19); // 0b11111111111111111111111111101101
    printf("%#o\n",   -19); // 037777777755
    printf("%#x\n",   -19); // 0xffffffed

Conversely it should be clear that one can losslessly truncate a signed number's binary representation to have only one leading ``0`` if it is non-negative, and one leading ``1`` if it is negative:

.. code-block:: text

     45 (8 bit)  00101101
     45 (7 bit)   0101101
    -19 (8 bit)  11101101
    -19 (7 bit)   1101101

> If one were to truncate another digit off of these examples, then both would end up as ``101101``, 45 indistinguishable from -19 when using only 6 binary digits because they are both the same modulo ``2 ** 6 = 64``. Therefore to losslessly and unambiguously represent a signed integer ``x`` as a binary string which is rendered to the end user, we have a defacto 'minimal width' representation convention, using ``n`` digits, where ``n`` is the smallest integer such that ``x`` is in ``range(-2 ** (n-1), 2 ** (n-1))``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If one were to truncate another digit off of these examples, then both would end up as ``101101``, 45, indistinguishable from -19 when using only six binary digits because they are both the same modulo ``2 ** 6 = 64``. Therefore to losslessly and unambiguously represent a signed integer ``x`` as a binary string which is rendered to the end user, we have a de facto 'minimal width' representation convention, using ``n`` digits, where ``n`` is the smallest integer such that ``x`` is in ``range(-2 ** (n-1), 2 ** (n-1))``.
```

Author: 'defacto' -> 'de facto' is addressed by be6f1dd48745202cdbedc11c7aed9eea87ae6e93

Author: Ditto https://github.com/python/peps/pull/4416#discussion_r2092532970

> For rendering octal and hexadecimal strings one has to extend the definition of the 'minimal width' representation convention to be sufficiently unambiguous. 383's minimal width binary string is ``0101111111``, and -129's is ``101111111``, a suffix of the former's. A naive, incorrect, implementation of hexadecimal string formatting would render both as ``'0x17f'`` by *padding* both binary representations to ``000101111111``. The method was correct to desire a number of binary digits (12) that is divisible by the number of bits in the base (4 bits in base 16) so that the binary representation can be segmented up into (hex) digits, but it was incorrect in *padding*; the method should have instead *extended* as we have observed previously, 383 extended to ``000101111111``, and -129 extended to ``111101111111``, whence 383 is rendered as ``'0x17f'`` and -129 as ``0xf7f``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For rendering octal and hexadecimal strings one has to extend the definition of the 'minimal width' representation convention to be sufficiently unambiguous. 383's minimal width binary string is ``0101111111``, and -129's is ``101111111``, a suffix of the former's. A naive, incorrect, implementation of hexadecimal string formatting would render both as ``'0x17f'`` by *padding* both binary representations to ``000101111111``. The method was correct to desire a number of binary digits (12) that is divisible by the number of bits in the base (four bits in base 16) so that the binary representation can be segmented up into (hex) digits, but it was incorrect in *padding*; the method should have instead *extended* as we have observed previously, 383 extended to ``000101111111``, and -129 extended to ``111101111111``, whence 383 is rendered as ``'0x17f'`` and -129 as ``0xf7f``.
```

Author: Ditto https://github.com/python/peps/pull/4416#discussion_r2092532970

Contrapositively therefore ``z``'s purpose is to be used in environments where signed-ness is *not* critical, and more likely than not where it is even encouraged to treat the integers with respect to the modular arithmetic that arises in two's complement hardware of fixed register sizes. In the example above 128 and -128 are the same modulo 256, and the respectable rendering is ``'0x80'``. In general the purpose of ``z`` is to treat integers modulo ``base ** precision`` as the same. So too 255 and -1 should both be rendered as ``'0xff'``, not ``'0x0ff'`` and ``'0xff'`` respectively; the truncation is not a hindrance, but the desired behavior. Formally we may say that the formatting should be a well defined bijection between the equivalence classes of ``Z/(base ** precision)Z`` and strings with ``precision`` digits.

> The remaining question is "[sic] is there no chance to communicate this truncation to user?" as a concern for the 'loss of information' arising from the effectively left-truncated strings. We reject this question's premise that there ever is such a case of unintentional loss of information, considering the two cases of hardware-aware integers and otherwise:

Reviewer 3: What's this "[sic]" for? Can we remove it, or reword to avoid it?

This paragraph ends in a colon, is the sentence incomplete?

Author: The '[sic]' was paraphrasing a [discussion][disc] talking point, but if we can see this as just an ad-hoc question rather than being attributed to a specific source then we can get rid of the '[sic]'.

The colon is because we break down the argument into two cases / two following paragraphs, but I agree it needs to flow better. I'll rework this section.

[disc]: https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/131926#:~:text=than%20a%20bug.-,The%20problem%20that%20you%20had%20no%20chance%20to%20communicate%20this%20overflow%20to%20user.,-address%20review%3A%20ensure

Author: Addressed by 045df95ef5c88ed625758e5b3691b12ab7bf40cf

Thus we have defended the lossy behavior of ``z`` implemented as modulo-precision, and we have exhausted all reasonable use cases of lossless behavior.

A final compromise to consider and reject is implementing ``z`` not as a flag *dependent* on ``.``, but as a flag that can be *combined* with ``.``. Specifically: ``z`` without ``.`` would turn on two's complement mode to render the minimal width representation of the formatted integer, ``.`` without ``z`` would implement precision as already explained, a minimum number of digits in the magnitude and a sign if necessary, and ``z`` combined with ``.`` would turn on the left-truncating modulo-precision. This labyrinth of combinations does not seem useful to anyone, as we have already discredited the ergonomics of minimal width representation convention, whence ``z`` would rarely be used on its own, and this behavior of two options that individually render a *minimum* number of digits combining together to render an *exact* number of digits seems counterintuitive.

Infinite Length Indication
''''''''''''''''''''''''''

> Another, less popular, rejected alternative was for ``z`` to directly acknowledge the infinite prefix of ``0``\ s or ``1``\ s that precede a non-negative or negative number respectively. For example

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Another, less popular, rejected alternative was for ``z`` to directly acknowledge the infinite prefix of ``0``\ s or ``1``\ s that precede a non-negative or negative number respectively. For example:
```

.. code-block:: python

    >>> f"{-1:z#.8b}"
    '0b[...1]11111111'
    >>> f"{300:z#.8b}"
    '0b[...0]100101100'

This is effectively the minimal width representation convention with an 'infinite' prefix attached to it.

In the C programming language the machine-width dependent two's complement formatting of ``int`` data with precision exhibits excessive lengths of prefixes that arise from negative numbers, even those with small magnitude:

.. code-block:: C

    printf("%#.2x\n", -19); // 0xffffffed
    printf("%#.2llx\n", (long long unsigned int)-19); // 0xffffffffffffffed

This prefix could continue on indefinitely if it were not limited by a maximum machine-width!

Python's ``int`` type is indeed not limited by a maximum machine-width. Thus to avoid printing infinitely long two's complement strings we could use a similar approach to that of the builtin ``list``'s string formatting for printing a list that contains itself:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> l = []
    >>> l.append(l)
    >>> l
    [[...]]

    >>> y = -1
    >>> f"{y:z#.8b}"
    '0b[...1]11111111'

> This may have been useful to educate beginner users on how bitwise binary operations work, for example showing how ``-1 & x`` is always trivially equal to ``x``, or how the binary representation of the negation of a number can be obtained by adding one to its bitwise complement:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This may have been useful to educate beginners on how bitwise binary operations work, for example showing how ``-1 & x`` is always trivially equal to ``x``, or how the binary representation of the negation of a number can be obtained by adding one to its bitwise complement:
```

  - Using a new ``!`` symbol reserves ``z`` for other future uses, whatever that may be.

  Cons:

  - ``z.`` also conveys a sense of extension from ``.``, a flag attached to ``.``, and lexicographically flows left to right as 'modulo' (``z``) 'precision' (``.``).
  - ``.`` and ``!`` being mutually exclusive to each other may give a beginner programmer analysis-paralysis over which to choose when looking at the `format specification <formatspec_>`_ documentation.
  - ``!`` would be another addition to the format specification for a single purpose. It would not have any implementation for ``str``, ``float``, or any other type.
  - There also already exists a ``["!" conversion]`` "explicit conversion flag" in the `format string syntax <formatstrings_>`_ as laid out in :pep:`3101`. For example in ``f"{s!r}"`` the ``!r`` calls ``repr`` on ``s``. This would *not* syntactically clash with a ``!`` format specifier, the format specifiers ``[":" format_spec]`` being separated by a well-defined preceding colon, however users unfamiliar with the new modulo-precision mode may glance over format strings containing ``!`` and expect different behavior.

  Verdict:

>   - Whilst graphically attractive, ``!`` would add too much more clutter to the format specification for a purpose that can be achieved by overloading the preexisting ``z`` flag.

Reviewer 3: "too much" or "much more" instead of "too much more"?
```suggestion
  - Whilst graphically attractive, ``!`` would add too much clutter to the format specification for a purpose that can be achieved by overloading the preexisting ``z`` flag.
```
```suggestion
  - Whilst graphically attractive, ``!`` would add much more clutter to the format specification for a purpose that can be achieved by overloading the preexisting ``z`` flag.
```

Author: Addressed by b5c3b244382ef0a30c37f07309bb76cbeaf7e725

Backwards Compatibility
=======================

> To quote :pep:`682`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To quote :pep:`682`:
```

>   The new formatting behavior is opt-in, so numerical formatting of existing programs will not be affected

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  The new formatting behavior is opt-in, so numerical formatting of existing programs will not be affected.
```

> unless someone out there is specifically relying upon ``.`` raising a ``ValueError`` for integers as it currently does, but to quote :pep:`475`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
unless someone out there is specifically relying upon ``.`` raising a ``ValueError`` for integers as it currently does, but to quote :pep:`475`:
```

PEP: 786
Title: Precision and Modulo-Precision Flag format specifiers for integer fields
Author: Jay Berry <email@jb2170.com>
Sponsor: Alyssa Coghlan <ncoghlan@gmail.com>
Status: Draft
Type: Standards Track
Created: 04-Apr-2025

> Python-Version: Pending

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Python-Version: 3.15
```

Author: Addressed by 3ca6120. 3.15 it is!

> Post-History: `14-Feb-2025 <https://discuss.python.org/t/implement-precision-format-spec-for-int-type-data/80760>`__

Reviewer 4: Shorten Discourse link, add a trailing comma for future diff sizes
```suggestion
Post-History: `14-Feb-2025 <https://discuss.python.org/t/80760>`__,
```

Author: Addressed by 3ca6120

.. code-block:: python

    >>> import struct

    >>> my_struct = b"\xff"
    >>> (t,) = struct.unpack('b', my_struct) # signed char
    >>> print(t, f"{t:#.2x}", f"{t:z#.2x}")
    '-1 -0x01 0xff'
    >>> (t,) = struct.unpack('B', my_struct) # unsigned char
    >>> print(t, f"{t:#.2x}", f"{t:z#.2x}")
    '255 0xff 0xff'

    # observe in both the signed and unsigned unpacking the modulo-precision flag 'z'
    # produces a predictable two's complement formatting

Thanks
======

Thank you to

* Sergey B Kirpichev, for discussions and implementation code.
* Raymond Hettinger, for the initial suggestion of the two's complement behavior.

Copyright
=========

This document is placed in the public domain or under the
CC0-1.0-Universal license, whichever is more permissive.

TODO AND REMOVE BEFORE MERGE
============================

* Format all lines to ~80 characters. I've left this formatting until we're happy with the contents.
* RFC 2119 Style Specification? After all is said and done here.

> * Add Sergey and Raymond to the authors field, or is Thanks enough?

Author: Addressed by 17a5532f6ea047b9975b8dcf75814fd6d6e3a3a5. It's best to leave them out of the Author field as they haven't written this PEP, and shouldn't be held to any responsibility attached it. Their help in inspiration and discussions etc is appropriately put in the 'Thanks' section.

* Give a good example of non-hardware aware use of modular arithmetic formatting, my brain has gone blank...
* Possibly (probably not) add one more feature to the PEP:

  Loosening :pep:`682`\ 's strict ordering of ``[#][z]`` as they appear in the `format specification <formatspec_>`_ for ``int`` fields for readability. (Or is this just my taste?: debate this)

  The existing `format specification <formatspec_>`_ mandates that if both ``z`` and ``#`` are to be used, they must appear in that order, leading to ``z#.``, with ``z`` separated from its ``.``, however this could be changed to be more permissible if there are no syntax clashes, to permit ``#z.``, or is this just my taste? :pep:`682` proposed / uses ``[sign][z]`` instead of ``[sign[z]]``, which has given us the opportunity to reuse ``z``, and really has no strict need to be ``[sign][z][#]...[.precision]``, or are we doing too much voodoo by allowing ``z`` and ``#`` to commute with each other, even if it's just for ``int`` fields. I'm starting to think this might be too much voodoo.

> ..
>   FOOTNOTES

Reviewer 4: If you have a "References" or "Footnotes" section that only contains links, it isn't rendered:

```suggestion
Footnotes
=========
```

Author: Addressed by 3ca6120. That's great to know! That's the reason I used a comment, lest a section with only links were to be rendered :sweat_smile:
